
---
layout: post
title: be_a_better_man
date: 2011-07-12 09:19:29 +0800

comments: true
categories: 
---

![image](http://www.jggz.net/teacher/tiyu/22.jpg)

If one person knows how he spend his life, he will be in shock:

he spent 8 hours a day at work, only 1-2 hours (even less!) were for the
jobs really metters. and he lost almost all the time after work: playing
game, watch TV, surfing the internet. and so this is a day. a day
without perception, a day without plan, and it all coursed by a man
without knowning what he is doing.

most of us is this man. is is sad. and on the opposite, some great
people have causion, they know what they what to, and knows it so well
that for every minute (or at least when he is planning to do something),
he can focus on the important things. by doing this, they have better
lifes.

so how could we be one of those "great people"? are there anything
magical? no. there are some simple rules:

**rule 1: plan before you start.**

we always eager to start doing things right away, it is human nature,
our brain works this way: doing things make ourselves feel better. and
planning is hard, make ourselves feel bad. but the issue is: plannig is
hard because you don't really know what you starts! and without knowing
the full picture may lead to failure. so make a plan, it is your road
map. without it, you will easily get lost.

**rule 2: start and finish what you plans.**

people controlled by their feelings. things have good part and bad part.
we always lost the battle. we always retreat, if we don't have faith. if
planning is like a general, analysis, judges, and make decisions, doing
things is like a soldier. not care about how target is hard to
accomplish, only concentrate on finish it.

**rule 3: examine what you finished.**

after finish the job, people just passing through, the job has the
feeling of pain, why not folder it, and leave it? the reason is, facing
the pain, make we do better in the future, and the job is our a
reflection of ourselves, examine it make ourselves better. so it is
important.

those are the simple rules. easy to understand, hard to follow. it need
disciprine, it need will power to follow. there is no easy way, maybe
there are some tips that can make it easier, but it still need you to
face the problem.

anyway, hope you can follow it, and be a better man.